#summary Changelog

= Changelog =

What's new?

Well, you can now ...

== Version 1.2 ==
_March 26, 2013_
  * ...get a transitivity error message for classes that use `or` in their equals method. (Issue 75; blog post about [http://www.jqno.nl/post/2013/02/17/reaction-to-cedric-beusts-equals-challenge/ the problem] and [http://www.jqno.nl/post/2013/03/26/on-transitivity the solution].
  * ...expect more robustness from EqualsVerifier when the toString method of the class under tests throws exceptions.
  * ...use single value enums (and hence, singletons) in your classes, even if they don't count for `equals` and `hashCode`. (Issue 74)
  * ...use `forRelaxedEqualExamples` with classes containing null fields. (Issue 73)
  * ...run EqualsVerifier's test suite with less chance of false negatives. (Issue 77)
  * ...build EqualsVerifier using Ant 1.9. (Issue 76)

== Version 1.1.4 ==
_January 14, 2013_
  * ... fork `EqualsVerifier` on !GitHub! `EqualsVerifier` has moved its code to !GitHub. The project frontpage will remain at Google Code.
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` on a class whose superclasses have no declarations for `equals` and `hashCode`. (Issue 63)
  * ... get an error when using `#allFieldsShouldBeUsed()` on a class that has fields but no declarations for `equals` and `hashCode` (and hence doesn't use these fields). (Issue 67)
  * ... get a more informative error message on Abstract Delegation errors: `EqualsVerifier` now also mentions the name of the abstract method that was called.

== Version 1.1.3 ==
_April 21, 2012_
  * ... add static fields to your classes that are tested with `#allFieldsShouldBeUsed()`. `EqualsVerifier` will no longer complain if these static fields aren't used in your `equals` and `hashCode` methods. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=57 Issue 57])
  * ... get a complaint from `EqualsVerifier` when your `equals` method works incorrectly if a field in the class under test is null. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=59 Issue 59])

== Version 1.1.2 ==
_March 1, 2012_
  * ... stop worrying about `EqualsVerifier` _recursively_ changing the value of non-final static fields, causing other tests to fail. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=55#c8 Issue 55, Comment 8])

== Version 1.1.1 ==
_February 21, 2012_
  * ... suppress `Warning.IDENTICAL_COPY` if you want to use reference equality in an overridden `equals` method. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=56 Issue 56])

== Version 1.1 ==
_February 11, 2012_
  * ... get a warning if you forgot to include a field in your `equals` or `hashCode` method, by calling the `#allFieldsShouldBeUsed()` method on `EqualsVerifier`. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=53 Issue 53])
  * ... get an error message if you include a reference-equality check (`this == obj`), followed by an incorrect instanceof check in your `equals` method. `EqualsVerifier` will now notice if you do an instanceof check for a class other than the one that you are testing. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=55#c2 Issue 55])
  * ... stop worrying about `EqualsVerifier` changing the value of non-final static fields, causing other tests to fail. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=52 Issue 52] and [http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=55 Issue 55])
  * ... stop worrying about adding prefab values for `File`, `List`, `Set`, `Map` and `Collection` to avoid unjustified warning. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=49 Issue 49] and [http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=51 Issue 51])

== Version 1.0.2 ==
_August 14, 2011_
  * ... find `EqualsVerifier` in Maven Central! ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=36 Issue 36])
  * ... get an error message when you forget to include an `instanceof` check or a `getClass()` check in your `equals` method. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=47 Issue 47])
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` on a class whose superclass has abstract declarations for `equals` and `hashCode`. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=48 Issue 48])

== Version 1.0.1 ==
_April 17, 2011_
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` on dynamically generated classes by disabling annotation processing. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=41 Issue 41])
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` on classes that are a subclass of one of the classes from `rt.jar`, which are loaded by the system classloader. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=43 Issue 43])
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` on classes with `float` or `double` fields but no `equals` method. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=44 Issue 44])
  * ... stop worrying about adding prefab values for `Throwable` and `Exception`, to avoid that pesky recursion warning. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=45 Issue 45])

== Version 1.0 ==
_February 23, 2011_
  * ... use the following annotations on your classes and fields: `EqualsVerifier` will know what to do!
    * `@Immutable`: `EqualsVerifier` will not complain about non-final fields if your class is `@Immutable`. (It doesn't matter in which package the annotation is defined; `javax.annotations.concurrent.Immutable`, `net.jcip.annotations.Immutable` or your own implementation will all work fine.)
    * `@Nonnull`, `@NonNull` and `@NotNull`: `EqualsVerifier` will not check for potential `NullPointerException`s for any field marked with any of these annotations. (Again: the source package doesn't matter.) This is similar to calling `suppress(Warning.NULL_FIELDS)`, but on a per-field basis, instead of all-or-nothing. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=28 Issue 28])
    * `@Entity`: `EqualsVerifier` will not complain about non-final fields if your class is a JPA Entity. Note that this only works for `javax.persistence.Entity`, not for `Entity` annotations from other packages. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=37 Issue 37])
    * `@Transient`: Fields marked with this annotation (again, only from `javax.persistence.Transient`), will be treated the same as fields marked with Java's `transient` modifier; i.e., `EqualsVerifier` will complain if they are used in the `equals` contract.
  * ... see which field throws a potential `NullPointerException`, instead of having to guess which one it was. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=39 Issue 39])
  * ... be sure that `EqualsVerifier` doesn't detect recursive data structures where there are none. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=34 Issue 34])
  * ... stop worrying about adding prefab values for `BigDecimal` and `BigInteger`, to avoid that pesky recursion warning. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=34 Issue 34])

== Version 0.7 ==
_November 15, 2010_
  * ... test `equals` methods that use a call to `getClass()`, instead of an `instanceof` check, to determine the type of the object passed in, by calling the `#useGetClass()` method on `EqualsVerifier`.
  * ... get a warning when you use a transient field in your `equals` or `hashCode` method. Don't worry; you can suppress this warning too.
  * ... stop worrying about adding prefab values for certain Java API classes, like `Data`, `GregorianCalendar`, or `Pattern`, to avoid that pesky recursion warning.
  * ... get a link to the [ErrorMessages Error messages] page to get more help, when !EqualsVerifier finds an error.
  * ... enjoy many javadoc improvements (including the one in [http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=32 Issue 32]).
  * Also, the back end is almost completely re-written.

== Version 0.6.5 ==
_August 5, 2010_
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` on classes with fields of a wide variety of Java API types, without getting 'Recursive datastructure' errors all the time. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=30 Issue 30])
  * ... get a more helpful error message when `equals`, `hashCode` or `toString` throws something other than a `NullPointerException` when one of the fields in `null`. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=31 Issue 31])

== Version 0.6.4 ==
_June 13, 2010_
  * ... get an appropriate error message when `Arrays.hashCode()` or `Arrays.deepHashCode()` should have been used, instead of a message that a certain field is used in `equals` but not in `hashCode` or the other way around. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=27 Issue 27])
  * ... get less frequent non-nullity errors on `toString`.

== Version 0.6.3 ==
_May 18, 2010_
  * ... test the equals/hashCode contract for classes that don't override `equals` or `hashCode`. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=23 Issue 23])
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` in conjuction with the [http://www.eclemma.org/ EclEmma] code coverage tool. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=22 Issue 22])
  * ... test classes that contain (indirect) references to non-static inner classes, without getting messages about recursive data structures. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=21 Issue 21])

== Version 0.6.2 ==
_February 11, 2010_
  * ... use `#withPrefabValues()` for recursive data structure fields in superclasses again. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=20 Issue 20])

== Version 0.6.1 ==
_February 6, 2010_
  * ... use `#withPrefabValues()` for fields which delegate to abstract methods again. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=14 Issue 14])
  * ... access the `#verify()` method more quickly using autocompletion in IDEs. (The method `#verbose()` has been renamed to `#debug()`.)

== Version 0.6 ==
_January 30, 2010_
  * ... use a more consistent API. `#with(Feature)` is now `#suppress(Warning)`, which feels more Java-y. Former features that were not warnings, are now proper methods on `EqualsVerifier`: `#verbose()` and `#withRedefinedSuperclass()`.
  * ... get better error messages:
    * many messages now span multiple lines for improved readability;
    * hashCodes are printed (where relevant);
    * unexpected exceptions are no longer eaten by `EqualsVerifier`, so they can be read without calling `#verbose()`;
    * calls to abstract methods from within `equals` and `hashCode`, which cannot be resolved, are now detected and properly reported. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=14 Issue 14])
  * ... verify classes that contain fields whose `equals` methods might throw `NullPointerException`s. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=19 Issue 19])
  * ... be sure that `EqualsVerifier` doesn't detect recursive data structures where there are none. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=18 Issue 18])
  * ... use fields of type `Class` in your classes. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=17 Issue 17])

== Version 0.5 ==
_September 1, 2009_
  * ... test classes that contain fields of interface or abstract class types (such as Lists, and other Collection types). ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=12 Issue 12])
  * ... step through the source code in Eclipse after adding the EqualsVerifier jar to your project. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=11 Issue 11])

== Version 0.4 ==
_August 29, 2009_
  * ... verify equality rules that are more relaxed than simple field-by-field comparison. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=9 Issue 9])

== Version 0.3 ==
_August 1, 2009_
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` without having to call `#withPrefabValues(...)` all the time. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=7 Issue 7])

== Version 0.2 ==
_July 3, 2009_
  * ... use the _fields are never null_ feature on classes instantiated with `#forClass(Class)`. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=1&can=1 Issue 1])
  * ... check if `Arrays.deepEquals` was used for multidimensional and `Object` arrays. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=3 Issue 3])
  * ... access optional features through a clean enum instead of through lots of different method calls. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=4 Issue 4])
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier` in unit test frameworks other than JUnit 4 ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=5 Issue 5])
  * ... have stacktraces be printed to `System.err`. ([http://code.google.com/p/equalsverifier/issues/detail?id=6 Issue 6])

== Version 0.1 ==
_June 1, 2009_
  * ... use `EqualsVerifier`!