---
title: FAQ
permalink: /faq/
---
* [Philosophy](#philosophy)
    * [Can EqualsVerifier give false positives?](#falsepositives)
    * [Can EqualsVerifier give false negatives?](#falsenegatives)
    * [So what's the point of EqualsVerifier then?](#whatsthepoint)
    * [How should I write a good equals method?](#howtowriteequals)
    * [Does EqualsVerifier give me 100% code coverage?](#coverage)
* [Error messages](#errormessages)
    * [Can you explain the error message I just got?](#explainerrormessages)
    * [I'm testing java.lang.String, but it fails](#testingString)
* [Build](#build)
    * [How do I build EqualsVerifier?](#howtobuild)


<a id="philosophy"></a>

Philosophy
----------

<a id="falsepositives"></a>

### Can EqualsVerifier give false positives?
Yes, it can. EqualsVerifier will not search a class's entire state space. If you write an `equals` method as below, EqualsVerifier will not notice that it's incorrect.

{% highlight java %}
public boolean equals(Object obj) {
    if (!(obj instanceof Synonym)) {
        return false;
    }
    Synonym other = (Synonym)obj;
    if ("equality".equals(word) && "sameness".equals(other.word)) {
        return true;
    }
    return word.equals(other.word);
}
{% endhighlight %}

The example is a little far-fetched, but it illustrates the point that you have to write bad code _on purpose_ to make EqualsVerifier think your `equals` method is correct when it is not.

<a id="falsenegatives"></a>

### Can EqualsVerifier give false negatives?
Yes, it can. Just try to verify `String`: it will fail. `String` employs some tricks for better performance, that EqualsVerifer can't verify. However, the good people who wrote `String` knew what they were doing, and have formally proven their implementation correct. If you have a formal proof that your implementation is correct, you don't need EqualsVerifier.

<a id="whatsthepoint"></a>

### So what's the point of EqualsVerifier then?
EqualsVerifier is a useful tool for anyone who wants to implement the `equals` and `hashCode` methods, without trying anything fancy. Implementing `equals` is hard, even for simple classes. Since most classes are simple, EqualsVerifier can be a great help in making sure that your implementation fulfills the contract.

EqualsVerifier catches common mistakes, such as forgetting to include a field in `hashCode` that is tested in `equals`. It also encourages robustness, for example by warning about non-final fields, and by watching out for inheritance issues.

If you run into a situation where EqualsVerifier can't help you, you are probably in one (or more) of the following situations:

1. You're writing non-trivial, high-performance niche code at NASA.
1. You're a Java API developer.
1. You're writing malicious code on purpose.
1. You're writing code that's way too complicated, and you should probably refactor.

(And even in the first two cases, EqualsVerifier can help creating an initial working implementation.)

<a id="howtowriteequals"></a>

### How should I write a good `equals` method?
By far the best explanation on the subject, in my opinion, can be found in Chapter 28 of _Programming in Scala_ by Martin Odersky, Bill Venners and Lex Spoon. The authors have adapted the chapter to Java and placed it online [here](http://www.artima.com/lejava/articles/equality.html).

Another excellent source, of course, is Items 8 and 9 from Josh Bloch's _Effective Java, Second Edition_.

See [the manual page about inheritance](/equalsverifier/manual/inheritance) if you want to use the `canEqual` method described by Odersky et al.

<a id="coverage"></a>

### Does EqualsVerifier give me 100% code coverage?
Yes, it does. EqualsVerifier's test suite contains a collection of many different common implementation patterns of `equals` and `hashCode`, including those generated by IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Netbeans and Project Lombok, which are all tested for 100% code coverage by [JaCoCo](http://www.eclemma.org/jacoco/).

Of course, there are many ways to implement `equals`, and despite my efforts, it's possible that 'I missed a spot'. See [this page](/equalsverifier/errormessages/coverage-is-not-100-percent) for more information on what to do when you find such a case.


<a id="errormessages"></a>

Error messages
--------------
<a id="explainerrormessages"></a>

### Can you explain the error message I just got from EqualsVerifier?
Sure! Just take a look at [the Error Messages page](/equalsverifier/errormessages).

<a id="testingString"></a>

### I'm testing `java.lang.String`, but it fails.
Please don't test `java.lang.String`, because indeed it fails. Please see the section on [false negatives](#falsenegatives) above.


<a id="build"></a>

Build
-----
<a id="howtobuild"></a>

### How do I build EqualsVerifier?
First, check out the code. You can open the project in Eclipse or IntelliJ, or you can run Maven from the command-line. You can also use [just](https://github.com/casey/just) to run Maven commands tailored to EqualsVerifier - or read the `justfile` in the project's root directory how you can do it directly.

Note that Java 17 or higher is required to compile the project.
