docs/_pages/resources.md, before:

---
title: Additional resources
permalink: /resources/
---
* [FAQ](/equalsverifier/faq)
* [Changelog](https://github.com/jqno/equalsverifier/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
* Migration guides: [[2.x to 3.x](/equalsverifier/migration2to3)] [[1.x to 2.x](/equalsverifier/migration1to2)]
* The [inspiration](/equalsverifier/inspiration) for EqualsVerifier

## Fork me on GitHub!

The source for this project is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/jqno/equalsverifier).

Pull Requests are welcome! But please also [open an issue](https://github.com/jqno/equalsverifier/issues) or [send a message to the Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/equalsverifier) so we can discuss it.

## EqualsVerifier in the media

* Talk at Devoxx 2017:
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/pNJ_O10XaoM?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  [[slides](https://github.com/jqno/talks/tree/main/_slides/equalsverifier/2017-11-06-devoxx)]
* Interview on the BarCoding podcast<br/>
  [[anchor](https://anchor.fm/barcoding/episodes/Episode-20---The-tales-of-the-EqualsVerifier-project-e1993ev)] [[spotify](https://open.spotify.com/episode/1d0aieZzRB9Ts85XWuquBe?si=WWYvYBiASECteA1flOgpDQ&nd=1)] [[apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/episode-20-the-tales-of-the-equalsverifier-project/id1477504970?i=1000539604102)]

## Image credits

These are the images used in the front-page menu:

* _Getting started_ by [Braden Collum on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/9HI8UJMSdZA)
* _Manual_ by [Aaron Burden on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/NN3bYSPU2tQ)
* _Error messages_ by [Sarah Kilian on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/52jRtc2S_VE)
* _Additional resources_ by [Ernesto Velázquez on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/YQaKRznyNeM)

Commit message:

Adds info about bug reports and feature requests

docs/_pages/resources.md, after:

---
title: Additional resources
permalink: /resources/
---
* [FAQ](/equalsverifier/faq)
* [Changelog](https://github.com/jqno/equalsverifier/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
* Migration guides: [[2.x to 3.x](/equalsverifier/migration2to3)] [[1.x to 2.x](/equalsverifier/migration1to2)]
* The [inspiration](/equalsverifier/inspiration) for EqualsVerifier

## Fork me on GitHub!

The source for this project is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/jqno/equalsverifier). You can file bug reports or feature requests there.

Pull Requests are welcome! But please also [open an issue](https://github.com/jqno/equalsverifier/issues) or [send a message to the Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/equalsverifier) so we can discuss it.

## EqualsVerifier in the media

* Talk at Devoxx 2017:
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/pNJ_O10XaoM?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  [[slides](https://github.com/jqno/talks/tree/main/_slides/equalsverifier/2017-11-06-devoxx)]
* Interview on the BarCoding podcast<br/>
  [[anchor](https://anchor.fm/barcoding/episodes/Episode-20---The-tales-of-the-EqualsVerifier-project-e1993ev)] [[spotify](https://open.spotify.com/episode/1d0aieZzRB9Ts85XWuquBe?si=WWYvYBiASECteA1flOgpDQ&nd=1)] [[apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/episode-20-the-tales-of-the-equalsverifier-project/id1477504970?i=1000539604102)]

## Image credits

These are the images used in the front-page menu:

* _Getting started_ by [Braden Collum on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/9HI8UJMSdZA)
* _Manual_ by [Aaron Burden on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/NN3bYSPU2tQ)
* _Error messages_ by [Sarah Kilian on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/52jRtc2S_VE)
* _Additional resources_ by [Ernesto Velázquez on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/YQaKRznyNeM)
